---
layout: default
title: storybible
---

h1. Characters

* The character's name
* Outfit/Equipment/Look
* A one-sentence summary of the character's storyline
* The character's motivation (what does he/she want abstractly?)
* The character's goal (what does he/she want concretely?)
* The character's conflict (what prevents him/her from reaching this goal?)
* The character's epiphany (what will he/she learn, how will he/she change?
* A one-paragraph summary of the character's storyline

h2. Ingron

Ingron is an devoted archaeologist. He has brown hair and a long
reddish braided beard.

Spear. Hammer.

h2. Thelos

Thelos studies Alchemy with his master Anrun in Aulwood. Unknown to most
he is also trained and used as an assassin by Anrun. He is not completly at ease
with his profession and thinks about quitting and fleeing far away.

Daggers.

h2. Gorza

Gorza lived as a fisher in her small village by the river until a demonboar killed
her husband and destroyed part of the settlement. She swoar vengeance and hunted it
down. She spent her time afterwards as monster hunter for villages in need.

Wears ranger cloth. Short bow, short sword, dagger.

Has a conch dangling from her belt.

h2. Romin

Romin spent his youth reading. His father was a wizard that settled down to
build a library, study and be the neighbouring villages 'wise man'.

He also identified with the heroes he read about and convinced his father to
give him a sword and train him in its use. He learned about magic from his
father but was always more concerned with fighting and wants to become
a famous warrior one day.

Wears a sword and his oaken staff.

h2. Anrun

Alchemy master and assassin. Head of the rebellion.

h1. Places

h2. Aulwood

Bigger city. Home of Thelos and Anrun.
