---
layout: default
title: System
---

h1. System

h2. Design Goals:

* d20 based (with d6 and maybe other dice aswell)
* lots of interesting magical items
* streamlined equipment and resource managements
* tactical fights without minis
* flexible, balanced magic system
* classless
* simple tracking of fights (minimal status/conditions/... effects)
* quick, randomizable way to generate monster and NPCs
* different energy and damage sources for resistances and attacks

h2. Character

A character is defined by the following crunch:

* Healthpoints
* Chaospoints
* Skills
* Feats
* Flaws
* Equipment (equipment on your character)
* Items (equipment in your backpack, ...)

h3. Creation

20 Healthpoints
10 Chaospoints

4x Skill Lvl4
4x Skill Lvl2
4x Skill Lvl1
1x Feat Lvl1
1x Spell
1x Flaw

5 Equipmentslots
10 Resourcepoints for Equipment and Items

h2. Skills

* Resistance[Type] (Dodge, Fire, Frost, Shock, Chaos)
* Stealth (Sneaking, Hiding)
* Security (Lockpicking, Disabling Devices)
* Athletics (Jumping, Climbing, Running, Swimming)
* Survival (Perception, Wilderness, Curing)
* Knowledge
* Culture[Type] (Human, Elf, Dwarf, Orc) (works as Diplomacy and Knowledge regarding this culture)
* Alchemy (item creation)
* Weapon[Type] (Blunt, Piercing, Edged, Ranged)
* Magic[Type]

h2. Feats

Feats only improve abilities they dont give additional tactical options (negative examples: weapon finesse, power attack)

* Sneak Attack (improves the damage output in cases of combat advantage (+d6 per feat level))

h2. Flaws

Flaws have negative and positive effects and provide the Gamemaster with potential plot hooks.
(Enemies, Mentor, Organizational ties, ...)

h2. Setting

Orcs/Elves/Humans/Dwarfs are considered different cultures.

Chaos and the associated Demons are a major enemy in this setting.

h2. Magic/Chaos

Limits of Magic are:

* no time travel
* no divination

h3. Base Parameter

Range: Self, Touch (+ 2), Sight (+4)
Area: Point, Ball (+ 2 per m^3)
Preparation: + 1 Round (-1) (max skill lvl)
Duration: Round, Encounter (+ 4), Day (+ 8)
Magictype: + 1 Magictype (+ 1)

h3. Casting

Roll d20 + Skill against 10 + Parametermodifier
Skill => lowest involved Magictypeskill

If touch or sight ist targeted against a Creature add its Resistance[Dodge] to Parametermodifier
If spell is also a damage spell add its Resistance[Type] to Parametermodifier too

* Natural 1: Botch
* Below DC: Parametermodifier in Chaospoints (minimum 1)
* Above DC: 1 Chaospoint
* Natural 20: no Chaospoint cost 

h3. Types of Magic

h4. Illusion

spells that alter perception, such as Invisibility and Charm.
Skill: + 5 Stealth (+ 2)
Skill: + 5 Culture (+ 2)

h4. Conjuration

spells that summon creatures and equipment from other worlds, such as Bound Items and Summon.
Summon Daemon: + 1 Creature Level (+ 2)

h4. Alteration

spells that manipulate the laws of nature, such as Water Breathing and Levitation.
Skill: + 5 Athletics (+ 2)
Skill: + 5 Security (+ 2)

h4. Destruction

spells that cause physical harm, such as Fire Damage and Damage Attribute.
Damage[Fire]: + 1d6 (+ 2)
Damage[Schock]: + 1d6 (+ 2)
Damage[Frost]: + 1d6 (+ 2)
Skill: + 5 Weapon[Edged] (+ 2)
Skill: + 5 Weapon[Piercing] (+ 2)
Skill: + 5 Weapon[Blunt] (+ 2)
Skill: + 5 Weapon[Ranged] (+ 2)

h4. Mysticism

spells that shape and focus ethereal forces, such as Telekinesis and Soultrap.
Damage[Chaos]: + 1d6 (+ 2)
Skill: -5 Resistance[Chaos] (+ 2)
Skill: -5 Resistance[Schock] (+ 2)
Skill: -5 Resistance[Frost] (+ 2)
Skill: -5 Resistance[Fire] (+ 2)
Skill: -5 Resistance[Dodge] (+ 2)
Telekinesis: + 1kg (+ 1), + 1m/per Round (+ 1)

h4. Restoration

spells that heal, such as Restore Health and Cure Common Disease.
Heal: + 1d6 HP (+ 2)
Cure Disease: + 4
Skill: + 5 Resistance[Chaos] (+ 2)
Skill: + 5 Resistance[Fire] (+ 2)
Skill: + 5 Resistance[Frost] (+ 2)
Skill: + 5 Resistance[Shock] (+ 2)
Skill: + 5 Resistance[Dodge] (+ 2)

h3. Spells

A Spell is a prepackaged effect.
You cannot modify it when casting and need to expend Karma to learn it.
But the Parametermodifier is reduced.

Example Spells I want to see:

* Push/Pull/Telekinesis
* Fireball
* Lightning
* Barriers
* Berserker Rage
* Invisibility/Camouflage
* Shapeshifting

h3. Additional Concepts

* Rituals
* Item creation
* Research

h2. Gameplay

Basic roll: 1d20+ Skill against DC

h3. Combat

You roll Initiative for each participant (d20 +  Boni).

20 is an automatic success (and critical hit?).
1 is a botch.

Each turn you have 1 Move action and 1 Combat action.

h4. Move action

* Move (up to 5m)

h4. Combat action

h5. Sprint

Effect:
* move up to 5m
* + 2 physical defense this round

h5. Defend

Effect:
* + 4 physical defense this round

h5. Charge (move up to 5m and attack with -4)

h5. Attack (Skill:[Weapontype] +  d20 +  Boni against Defense of Enemy)

h5. Power (Skill:[Magictype] +  d20 +  Boni against Resistance of Enemy)

h5. Disarm

Condition:
* a Creature in attack range wields a removable weapon

Effect:
* the weapon drops on the ground

h5. Draw Equipment

Condition:
* you have a free hand

Effect:
* one piece of your equipment is ready to be used

h4. Combat Advantage

Condition: (OR)
* the Creature cannot see you
* you are flanking the Creature
* the Creature unable to properly defend himself
* the Creature did not have his first action this encounter

Effect: + 2 on attack rolls

h2. Hazards

Poisoning cost you Chaos Points

h2. Advancement

Each encounter earns between 1-3 Karma.

These are tracked by the Gamemaster and are available during a long rest.

* 1 Skill (new level in Karma)
* 1 Feat (new level in Karma x10)
* 1 Healthpoint (5 Karma)
* 1 Chaospoint (1 Karma)
* 1 Equipmentslot (5 Karma)

h2. Equipment & Items

Each character gets Resource Points that are an abstract way of handling money
during gameplay.

h3. Weapons

Size (Damage): One-Handed (1d6),  Two-Handed (2d6)
Weapontype: Edged, Piercing, Blunt, Ranged
Special: Boni on specific actions, Effects on critical or botched attacks

h4. Edged
h5. One handed
* Longsword
* Battleaxe
* Goblinsword (botch: breaks)
h5. Two handed
* Twohanded Axe
* Twohanded Sword

h4. Piercing
h5. One handed
* Dagger
h5. Two handed
* Spear

h4. Blunt
h5. One handed
* Battlehammer
h5. Two handed
* Staff

h4. Ranged
h5. One handed
* Dagger
h5. Two handed
* Spear
* Bow (botch: out-of-ammo for this encounter)

h3. Potions 

* one time use 
* most Potions do Chaos damage to you

h3. Artefacts

* reuseable magic items
* reduce your maximum chaos points

h2. Resting

h3. Short Rest

It is assumed that the Party rests for 10 minutes after each Encounter.
Duration: Encounter Powers and Spells work until this.

Effect:
1d6 Healthpoints are restored.

h3. Day Rest

It is assumed that the Party rests for 8 hours each Day.
Duration: Day Powers and Spells work until this.

Effect:
1d6 Chaospoints are restored.
All Healthpoints are restored.

h3. Long Rest

It is assumed that the Party rest for a week or longer after each Adventure.

Effect:
All Chaospoints are restored.
All Healthpoints are restored.
Earned Karma is given.

h2. Glossary

Karma: Experience
Creature: Any sentient being (Monsters, NPC, Daemons, Characters)
Party: A group of Characters
Encounter: a fight or a scene during an adventure

h2. Ideas and Todos

* Rules for retreating from an encounter
* Travel and Exploration rules
* Diplomacy
* Creature generation rules
* Botch while casting
* Powers
* Mysticism: Dispel Magic
* Resistance[Dodge] vs Resistance[Edged,Piercing,Blunt,Ranged]
* Reputation/Glory rules (for example using Resourcepoints to increase Reputation)
* Profession skills
